image layout - how image data is stored , to maximise preformace for specific purposes
 
pipeline barrier - used mostly for synchronysing acces to resources like making sure a image was written to before reading
it and can be used to transition image layouts.

texels - pixels in image object

resource descriptors - Resource descriptor allow shaders to freely access shit like buffers or images. just basically whatever resources ya desire
For resource descriptors ya need ta
        * Specify a descriptor layout during pipeline creation
        * Allocate a descriptor set from descriptor pool
        * Bind the descriptor set during rendering
    
Descriptor Layout
        layout specifies the TYPES of resources that will be accessed.

Descriptor set
        The set specifies the actual buffer or image which will be bound to the descriptors.
        A descriptor set can have multiple descriptors of different types (e.g. UBO, image sampler, storage buffer)

Binding
	The descriptor set is then bound for da drawing commands like the vertex or frame buffers.

**da process of getting resources to the gpu and letting shader access them


UBO vs SSBO
	basically UBOs are more restrictive but faster than SSBOs


**vertex binding descriptions
a binding description describes at what "rate" to load the data.
you need a binding per array of data (this array is on the cpu) and you describe how big each entry is (thats the stride variable), for vertecies the stride / how big they are is just "sizeof(Vertex)" or literally the size in bytes of each vertex.
input rate is either per vertex or per instance. If ur doing instanced rendering use instance inputrate if otherwise use the per vertex. 

A vertex binding descriptor tells the program how to handle a vertex as a whole, an attribute descriptor tells the program how to handle each attribute of the vertex (e.g. position, color, anything you can thing of)

vertex attribute descriptor has 4 tings

binding		location	format		offset

binding- is da binfing in the shader the data is coming from
location- location of attribute in the vertex
format- number of components of the attribute. vec2 has 2 components, float has 1 component, vec 4 has 4 etc. format uses the same enums as color formats god knows y so do be careful about that. if ya need just search up the format u be looking for.
offset-the offset of the attribute in bytes in the vertex. Just use the offsetof() ting

The pipeline needs to be provided with the binding descriptor and attribute descriptor!!